---
layout: post
title: Status Update...Personal Growth
---

#### During my time as a contributor to the p5.js repository on GitHub, I have opened my own issue and resolved it by submitting a pull request. I searched through this project’s documentation and found an overlooked typo in one of their documents. I then followed community guidelines on appropriate procedures for reporting issues.  Eventually, I was greeted by a steward (a person who makes decisions regarding codebase) and was encouraged to create a pull request (a request to incorporate your personal changes into the project’s repo) for my issue. I have also communicated with members of p5.js via discord;  I shared a link to an issue that was created by a team member of mine, this link contained collaborative ideas and concerns about existing procedures.

#### Strangely enough, I have gained real-world experience on how important effective communication is. Through interacting with this community I understand why following typical procedures are important. I’ve gotten into a groove transmitting information to others who have more knowledge than me in their field. Lastly, I have gotten experience using mergetools to solve conflicting changes made to files.

#### I’d be elated if I get the chance to contribute a section of code to this project in the remaining weeks of this program. I would also like to learn techniques that may help my workflow become more productive. Through the earlier stages of this program I have begun to see the importance of quick and collaborative work styles. I would like to see my writing strength continue to grow and my comfortability level around code excel.

#### In my first blog post, I set a goal for myself to be more outgoing when it comes to me sharing ideas and my train of thought in academic settings. I have much room for improvement, but I can say without  a doubt I have made tremendous progress towards this goal. From this point in time until the end of this program I will continue to participate in group activities and will not be afraid to ask questions. I will not look at myself in a negative manner because I think a question is dumb; I am glad I asked as many questions as I did throughout this program. My perspective for technology and other creative outlets are much more in depth than ever before! My mentor, Emily has cultivated a nurturing environment that overtime has made me feel more comfortable asking questions and thus has led me to become a more interactive learner.
